So in the last lecture we talked about the best ways to buildings for your site but there is another
way and it's actually paying for the links.
So I just wanted to call this head separately on a next share and discuss a little bit because it may
be something that you've seen or heard about.
So let's explain that more about this painfully Lincs really comes under the heading of black hat as
CEO and black hat is a reference to the old cowboy movies where the bad guy wore the black hat so you
probably get a sense that this is something a little bit risky.
That's not playing by the rules exactly am.
So let's talk about pain feelings a little bit more.
The first thing to note is US generally when you're paying for links you can go on to freelancing side
you're paying me five or ten dollars.
And really what those people are doing are creating links generally to things like blog comments forum
signatures pure directories user profiles and other types of directories.
Now the thing is that generally these links offer the lowest amount of value that's the lowest amount
of power in these links because they're unlikely to come from authority sites and they're unlikely to
come from sites that are within your niche.
If you remember those were the characteristics of some of the powerful backings.
So the other very important thing to consider and this is really where the risk comes in is the recent
updates to Google's algorithm means that a site can be penalized or suppressed if they have engaged
in manipulative link building.
So this is a relatively new addition to those of the rhythm that they will actually negatively affect
your your chances of ranking in search engines if they determine that she's trying to manipulate the
building.
So that's really the main risk by this method.
And what I thought would be interesting is to maybe show you an example of where things can go wrong
and I had a client that had Bosch a link building package from one of these freelancing sites and I'm
going to show you that it's very obvious to anybody that this is very manipulative looks very unnatural
.
So let's have a look at us.
Great.
So this is the client that I was saying that had bought the boxings package and this is just a screen
shot because I didn't want to kind of show.
And it was.
But essentially this is a I've used a bottlings checker tool.
It's called a page A.H. rest site explore.
We're going to look at this how to check packings profile a bit more in more detail and a further lecture
.
But really important point here is that you can see that this looks very natural they've almost no Millings
been a huge surge in a very short space of time.
And then a lot of them have dropped off as well.
So you can see that a lot of it do follow links.
These are the blue blue ones the new links were then subsequently lost.
And so it looks very unnatural.
And if we can see it's Wamsley like this in a backings checker too you can be sure that Google picked
up on this as well.
So another interesting point is when I did a poll the CEO report for these guys I saw that the top five
keywords on their site were Viagra Cialis Levitra.
These are all types of Troggs I think.
So obviously what happened is when the person who bought when the the guy who runs the site he handed
over the log in details to the the bottlings sky what the guy actually did was then put and put a load
of links on this guy's site pointing to all these other sites about five Agric cetra So the double whammy
of confusing Google in terms of SEO on page optimization of washer's site is right because they have
all these new keywords in there plus as well.
The bad reputation that looks all these spammy sites pointing to you now.
So the question is then how to get rid of these and links that are pointing you from behind the Internet
.
In short it's a difficult and slow process.
You can use what's called the Google disavowal tool which is in the Google webmaster's tool.
And we basically say to Google these are all the links I want you to ignore them please because these
are spammy etc. but if you really want to be sure the only way to remove them is to actually do manual
I reach an e-mail to people where the sites you have these site links pointing back to you and ask them
to do news.
And so again a very tedious process.
And I can take a lot of time.
So in short what I'm saying is that it's messy to clean up.
It's risky from a search engine perspective.
I'm not saying the findings can work.
I think it can answer concerts and sounds is only showing you this kind of worst case scenario.
Walk in happen